1e9 is 1bn
5e12 is 5tn
8e14 is 800tn

you can deprio business and ops in main
some engi and managment and most in rnd will get you crazy products
and very few in ops/business ofc





https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vTzTvYFStkFjQut5674ppS4mAhWggLL5PEQ_IbqSRDDCZ-l-bjv0E6Uo04Z-UfPdaQVu4c84vawwq8E/pub

A Starting Strategy for BN3.1

Compiled and arranged by /u/angrmgmt00

If you’re staring at the 3rd BitNode UI and wondering what the heck to do, or you had a rough start and want some advice on starting over, this is the place. First off, HUGE thanks to the folks in the BitBurner Discord for filling in the gaps, and all credit for this starting approach goes entirely to Pigalot, who is also working on the corporation API!

That said, the approach was presented quite tersely, with a wee bit of info left out, so I decided to spruce it up a bit. It’s hard when you’re completely immersed in something to see where someone else might have a gap, so I’m just taking a knowledgeable person’s info and presenting it through a newbie’s eyes. Hopefully this gives you a jump-start like it did for me!

Formatting Conventions:
Interactive UI Elements are shown in bold
Concepts and UI Informational Elements are shown in italics
code and commands are shown in bold monospace
How to Corporation
First things first, if you’re not in the habit of using ls regularly, use that right at the start of this BitNode. You will likely find a .lit file that tells you how to start a corporation. If you’re like me, you will have missed this entirely and wondered what the heck to do, to which the short answer is: go to City Hall in Sector-12 (you know, the place where nothing has ever happened before except someone yelling at a clerk), and there you can start your corporation on a gubmint loan. Or, if you’re somehow already independently wealthy, you can use your own $150b. Your choice.

Initial Setup
Pick a name and choose to Expand right out of the gate… you don’t have anything yet, so expansion is how you make your first Agriculture division!

Once you’ve got a brand-new division, the first step is to buy Smart Supply, which will keep you topped up on materials you need to do business. Speaking of which, you’ll have to Configure said Smart Supply on the Sector-12 office tab and enable it for it to keep you flush.

Next, you’ll want to start Expanding to offices in different cities. After buying each, Hire 3 Employees for that office, one in each of the essential positions: Operations, Engineer, and Business.

When you’re spread across the map and staffed, splurge on a single AdVert.Inc purchase to get the word out that you’re in town… all of them. This will increase Awareness and Popularity, which help you sell materials and later, products.

Upgrade each office’s Storage to 300 (two successive upgrades) and start selling your Plants and Food. To do that, click Sell (0.000/0.000) to open the selling dialog, which you can study at your leisure, then pick a sell amount and sell price. I’d suggest starting with MAX for Sell amount and MP (market price) for the Sell price, but this is your corporation, you run it how you want! After a tick, it should change to say something like Sell (69.420/MAX) @$3.210k, indicating that you’re selling 69.420 items per second (out of whatever MAX happens to be now), at $3.210k per unit. Great!

Time To Grow
With all the basics in place, we’re going to grease the gears a bit with some upgrades, in order and in two rounds (i.e., through this list twice):

FocusWires
Neural Accelerators
Speech Processor Implants
Nuoptimal Nootropic Injector Implants
Smart Factories
Just one level of each, then back through to make it two each.

Now we want to get some more materials to help make products and run the business better. You’ve noticed by now that the list values change on a timed basis, corresponding to the Current state of the market cycle shown at the top of the list. We need to be ready to make a change within one tick, but it’s long enough that it shouldn’t be hard (10s). The general process is:

Click Buy (0.000)
Enter the number of items to purchase per second
Click Confirm
Watch the item amount on the left (e.g., Material:  AMOUNT (RATE)) and the moment it changes to our desired value, just click the button to buy again and click Clear Purchase
We’re going to buy 3 things for each office:

Hardware at 12.5/s for one tick to 125 total
AI Cores at 7.5/s for one tick to 75 total
Real Estate at 2.7k/s (that’s twenty-seven hundred, 2 700, 2.7×103) for one tick to 27k total
When they start, employee Morale, Happiness, and Energy will be fair-to-middlin’, but they’ll improve with time. You should wait for the values to hit the following before proceeding:

Avg Employee Morale: 100.000
Avg Employee Happiness: 99.998 (or higher)
Avg Employee Energy: 99.998 (or higher)
Workers should be allowed to reach these values whenever they’re hired, but note that this requires the company to be earning income. This will make sure they’re contributing their best work, and is a good way to squeeze out a couple extra bucks. This will be relevant very soon…

Now the Profit ought to be humming along, rocking steady at about $1.5m/s, and your corporation is looking nice; I bet there’s someone out there who’ll want to invest! Head back to the main tab and Find Investors. You ought to catch a bid of around $210b or so. Cool.

Now you want to Upgrade the size of each office and increase the staff to 9 employees. You should end up with:

Operations (2)
Engineer (2)
Business (1)
Management (2)
Research & Development (2)
If everything went according to plan above, you’ve now got about $160b left over. Now it’s time to ratchet this thing up to the peaks!

Upgrade each of Smart Factories and Smart Storage to level 10 to increase productivity and give your offices more room to store all the new stuff. This should leave you with about $110b.

Upgrade Warehouse Sizes directly 7 times for each office, for a new grand total storage of 2k at all locations, leaving around $45b to work with. Now to use some of that new space!

We’re gonna do that thing again where we Buy some exact amounts of materials, one tick at a time. Here’s what we need at each office:

Hardware at 267.5/s for one tick to get to 125 + 2675 = 2800
Robots at 9.6/s for one tick to get to 96
AI Cores at 244.5/s for one tick to get to 75 + 2445 = 2520
Real Estate at 11940/s for one tick to get to 27000 + 119400 = 146400
With all this additional production, and thus revenue, let’s see if we can Find Investors again; spoiler alert: we can, and this time it should be about $5t. Nice.

Let’s get a bit more storage space, say 9 Warehouse Size upgrades per office for another 1.8k storage each, bringing them to 3.8k total.

Now we’ll get some more materials to fill up all that space we bought before. You know the drill, so here’s the shopping list for each office:

Hardware at 650/s for one tick to 2800 + 6500 = 9300
Robots at 63/s for one tick to 96 + 630 = 726
AI Cores at 375/s for one tick to 2520 + 3750 = 6270
Real Estate at 8400/s for one tick to 146400 + 84000 = 230400
This should get the Production Multiplier over 500. Neat.

The First Product and Beyond
Now we’ll want to let that farm some cash for us while we work on the next step. It’s time to make a product! Note that this section is a bit more freeform than before. Don’t fret about the order as much as the ideas.

To create a product, we need to Expand again, and this time we’re going with Tobacco. It costs $20b to make the expansion, so scoop the corporation’s money into a pile, come up with a snazzy name, and take the plunge.

Expand first to Aevum, then to all other cities. In Aevum, Upgrade the Size of the office to 30 employees and hire enough folks to have 6 of each type of employee except Training. As you expand to every other branch, keep the same 9 employees in their same roles as before.

When everyone is up and running, pop into the Aevum office and click Create Product. Have a read of the product creation dialog if desired, then choose Aevum (duh), name it something like “Tobacco v1” (or a more creative name) and set it up for $1b in each of Design investment and Marketing investment, then click Develop Product. This will take some time; you can monitor the process at the bottom of the materials and products list in an office with a warehouse set up (right off the bat this will only be Sector-12 if you don’t expand and set them up first).

Now we’ll introduce a set of guidelines for continued improvement of the corporation (and our budding Tobacco division) while we wait. Do the first list item, if possible, then the second, then the third, and so on:

Whenever your corporation has more than $3t, invest a level in Wilson Analytics; just keep ballooning it to the moon (realistically it will top out at about lvl 14 here)
Level FocusWires, Neural Accelerators, Speech Processor Implants, and Nuoptimal Nootropic Injector Implants each to level 20
While you can afford to sink money into AdVert.Inc, do so for the Tobacco division (should end up with something like 36k Awareness and 27k Popularity)
When v1 completes, set its sell amount to MAX, and its price to MP. Set it the same for all cities for now. If you see it constantly selling 100%, try multiplying MP by increasing integers until it doesn’t, then drop back down by 1 (i.e., when you have stock sitting in the warehouse, the price is too high, so reduce it). When you’re feeling froggy, leap into “Tobacco v2”, with the same setup as v1, and then do it again for v3 when ready. During this process, don’t spend Scientific Research! Your tobacco products will benefit in a huge way from stockpiled research, so each version will be better than the last!

If you haven’t already, expand to all cities, then hire employees up to 60 in Aevum primarily, but do hire at each office eventually. Feel free to let Aevum be your hiring focus indefinitely though; it needs the employees for continuing design work, while other cities will simply produce and sell a bit more if you staff them. It’s not nothing, but better products will sell better on their own so it’s more of a “sprinkles on the sundae” situation.

When the hiring in Aevum is done and the corp has 3 products, Discontinue the first one (the lowest value) and make another, same setup as before. There should always be a product under development. When the eggheads down in R&D have cooked up 10k Scientific Research, it’s time to apply it via the Research button. The first thing needed is the Hi-Tech R&D Laboratory, which will earn an additional 10% on all research done; getting this in early pays off later. The main goal here is getting Market-TA.I and Market-TA.II, simultaneously, at the low, low price of 70k. Make sure to wait to have 140k Scientific Research stored up so that new products aren’t completely tanked. It is generally agreed that Market-TA.I is not worth using on its own, so when setting prices on new products (still MAX and MP), it’s only necessary to turn on Market-TA.II (to the right, inside MARKET-TA).

In general, during this period priorities should be:

Always be Making Products
Buy Wilson Analytics whenever it’s in reach
Upgrade Size at Aevum, +15 at a time OR buy an AdVert.Inc, whichever is cheaper
Upgrade Size on other cities, keeping Aevum at least 60 ahead; any closer and you’re wasting money that you ought to save for the above
Let’s go put our hands out for Investors again… big fish here, something like $800t!! If you don’t see that, go back to the above steps for a bit. You’ll get there!

Eventually you will lose the Find Investors button and the next big step is to Go Public. Then you can set up dividends to skim a bit of cash off the top, or sell your stock for big bucks, though it’s recommended to go the slow and steady route. Now we move into maintenance mode. From here on out you should have the hang of the process, we’ll just make a few minor tweaks. Now priorities should be:

Always be Making Products
Upgrade Size at Aevum, +15 at a time (up to 250-300) OR buy an AdVert.Inc, whichever is cheaper
Upgrade Size on other cities, keeping Aevum at least 60 ahead; any closer and you’re wasting money that you ought to save for the above
Hope this helped you get up and running, and gave some ideas for how it all works. Enjoy!